		Update Policy for Public Releases of Karma


1)  When a number of bugfixes and/or enhancements are made which do
not modify the function interface definitions of routines in the
existing public release, a new public release is placed on anonymous
ftp. The release number is incremented. Hence, moving from one release
to the next should not break any source code.
A release may make incompatible changes to headers files which would
require the recompilation of all code which references those header
files. If such recompilation is required, there should be an item in
the release notes specifying this.

2) When an incompatible change to one or more functions is required
(for instance, an extra parameter is needed, a package is removed or a
package undergoes a major overhaul), a transition period will be
entered where the old functions are unchanged and the new functions
are created. A new public release will be made available (with the
release number being incremented) and notice will be given in the
release notes that the old routines are being phased out. The new
public release will be the last release of that version. The next
public release will have it's version number incremented, and the
routines that were due to be phased out will be removed.
The last release of the previous version will be moved to an archive
directory.

Notices of a new public release are made to people who have mailed to:
karma-request@atnf.csiro.au  asking to be placed on the mailing list.

This policy should be available in the file: $KARMABASE/doc/update-policy
